The system allows for a more advanced functionality when logged in as an admin. This readme will highlight how to best use this range of capabilities. To access the admin functionality, the user must first log in. Do this by clicking on the ‘Login’ button on the top right of the webpage. Type in your email and password and click ‘Log In’ to to login to the system. Once this is completed, click on the ‘My Account’ at the top right of the screen. You will now be logged in as an admin. 

To add a train to the system, click on the ‘Train’ button on the left of the screen. Once clicked, a box will appear entitled ‘Add Train’. To add a train, type the name of the railway line into the text box and click submit. 

To add a station to the system, click on the ‘Station’ button on the left and a box will appear. Simply type in the name of the station into the ‘Station Name’ text box and then the abbreviation of the station name in the ‘Mnemonic’ box (e.g. Newcastle, NCL). 

To add a railway line to the system, click on the ‘RailwayLine’ button on the left and a new window will appear. To add a railway line, simply type in the name of the railway line and click on submit to confirm the changes. To add a station to the railway line, use the ‘Add Station to RailwayLine’ box. Then type in the name of the railway line, the station ID and the station position to assign a station to a railway line. The box below will display the railway lines currently assigned to the system. Use the ‘remove’ button to remove the railways lines as you wish. Underneath this is a box that allows for a station to be removed from a particular railway line. Use the ‘Remove’ button situated in the furthest right column to remove the particular station from the particular railway line as you wish. 

To add a train schedule, click on the ‘Schedules’ button on the left and then click on the ‘Train’ button. Type in the train schedule you wish to add into the ‘Train ID’ text box and click submit. To remove a train schedule, use the ‘Remove’ button situated on the furthest right column in the train schedule table.

To add a station to a train’s schedule, click on the ‘Schedules’ button and then click on the ‘Stations’ button. In the first box, input the train schedule ID and the station ID along with the arrival and departure time. The box below displays all of the train schedules. Use the ‘remove’ button as you wish to remove train schedules. 

The system consists of three separate entities: trains, stations and railway lines. Each train is assigned a train schedule. It is therefore an Admin’s job to assign train stations to that train schedule until the whole route is planned out. The routes consist of only one way trips, and therefore if the wishes of an admin were that the trains return in the opposite direction after completing a journey, this must be conducted under a new schedule. For example, if an admin was planning on adding a return trip from Newcastle to London King’s Cross, then two journeys must be planned. This would include one journey from Newcastle to London King’s Cross, and then one from London King’s Cross to Newcastle. This is because the system will not allow a station to be assigned on the same schedule twice. 